- [Instructor] JDBC is the Java-centric protocol
for connecting to a relational database.
Let us build a JDBC connection endpoint together.
Initialize the project files by using git checkout 04_02b.
Now, for this lesson,
imagine that we have several power devices
on a consumer power grid,
and each of these devices communicate
to the consumer local database with status updates.
Our consumer dashboard application that we are building
needs to query this database
to discover if any devices are offline
and to notify the consumer in this event.
Let's configure a Spring Integration JDBC adapter
to accomplish this.
Let's first have a look at AppSupportStatus.java.
This is the domain object that we've been building.
This object encapsulates state for communication
along our central message pipeline.
In line 15, we have prepared for this lesson
by adding a property
that captures an array list of devices known to be offline,
along with some appropriate business logic
in line 36 and et cetera.
With that as background,
let's go now to a file called jdbc.xml,
and let's start configuring.
As we have done previously,
we're going to start by configuring a direct channel.
Let's call this channel dataChannel.
And the full use of that channel
will become clear momentarily,
but right now let's jump on in,
and let's have a look at our JDBC adapter configuration.
Now, to configure this endpoint,
we're going to use not the int namespace,
but the int-jdbc namespace.
You'll notice that we have imported those namespaces
into our configuration file there
in line six and lines 11 through 12.
That gives us access to the int-jdbc namespace.
Now let's look at a few examples
of capabilities we have available to us here.
We have an outbound-channel-adapter that we can configure.
Outbound adapters handle a message, take a message in,
and use that message in order to execute a query.
Outbound-gateways that you see there on the screen
is kind of like a combination
of an outbound and an inbound adapter.
It's bidirectional.
Its role is to handle a message,
use it to execute a SQL query,
and then respond with the result
by sending it to a reply channel.
We, however, for this example are going to configure
an inbound-channel-adapter.
Inbound adapters are primarily to execute a select statement
and return the result as a message.
That's what we're going to do here,
an inbound-channel-adapter.
Let's give it an id of gridStatusPoller
because it's going to poll the database for device statuses.
It is going to put the results of its polling
out to the channel we configured in line 17, dataChannel.
It seems really simple on the face of it,
but what we need to do here
is right here in the XML configuration,
we can configure a query, so we're going to do that.
We're going to select the display field
from the device table
where isup equals false
because we're querying for devices
that are offline right now.
We need to give our inbound-channel-adapter a data-source.
A word on that in just a moment.
And we're going to set the attribute auto-startup
to be false,
and I'll talk more about that in just a moment too.
Finally, we're going to configure this element
as Spring Integration poller.
This is a very powerful capability of Spring Integration
that we haven't explored yet.
What a poller will do is continue to execute this query
that we're setting up on a fixed interval
and manage itself in order to do that.
So let's give this a fixed rate of five seconds.
And something you can also do
that I want to be sure to point out here
is we could cause the life cycle of this poll
to be wrapped in a transaction.
That's kind of a nice shortcut
that we could leverage if we wanted to,
if transactions were a concern for us.
At this time, it is not, and so we're not going to do that,
but I wanted to make sure to show that capability to you.
So now we've configured that inbound-channel-adapter.
I promised you information about the data source,
the data source we configured in advance at this lesson.
They're in line 27.
Notice that we set up a data source
in our application.xml file.
This is an h2-embedded memory,
this simply being initialized with some data
on application startup.
Also, I wanted to point out to you
the implication of this auto-startup.
They're on line 28.
By default, Spring will start this polling at the moment
as soon as it can when the Spring context gets configured.
However, our application is not going to be ready for it
by the time it starts running.
So we're going to instead explicitly call start
on our dataPoller here in our data manager there in line 58.
Now let's start the application
and see what we have achieved.
We have achieved an error. What did we get here?
Okay, this is worth learning.
See this error: Dispatcher has no subscribers for a channel?
What that is telling us
is that we have configured a subscribable channel,
our dataChannel that has no subscribers,
either in code or in configuration.
The transformation that belongs here
will solve that problem.
It will act as a subscriber to the dataChannel.
In a previous lesson,
we used the JSON-to-Object transformer.
We're just going to do a custom transformer right now.
The input-channel is going to be our dataChannel,
meaning when something comes through the dataChannel,
our transformer's going to pick it up, do a transformation,
put it to our status monitor application messaging bus.
We're going to call the method transform
on a bin that we configured below in line 25
called transformer.
When our SQL query in our adapter picks up data,
it will pipe it to the dataChannel.
The dataChannel will do a transformation
to a domain object to the statusMonitorChannel
so that our application can pick up that domain object
and do something meaningful with it.
Now we should be able to start up this application
and see something useful.
And sure enough, here you see on the Grid Status component
of the dashboard, upper left, a message saying
the power grid has one or more devices offline.
That's coming directly from our query
of our embedded database.
So we've configured a JDBC adapter
and are using it to bring in live data
into our user interface
through our application messaging flow pipeline.